>> Jon Kuperman: So
I already have my thing running,
if you wanted to follow along you
would just kill your MPM start and
you would run node
--inspect server/index.js.
Got that going, gotta come back here,
open up the dev tools and I'm gonna mount
these back to the bottom, open up the node
dev tools which is whole another tab and
then I would want to hit start and
then refresh the page, and then hit stop.
So a thing to always keep in mind when
you're doing these profiles for CPU stuff,
like why something took so long,
is the shorter the better.
If you do a ten second one a few things,
you're gonna get a bunch of noise in
there, but also it's gonna be hard to see
anything because if the page took a second
to load and you do a two second recording,
that load will be big.
You can see mine, right?
It's big and easy to see.
If you do a really long recording
it's gonna be hard to zoom in and
figure out where it is
that you're looking for.
So when you're doing the CP recording,
you want to start it,
do the thing as quickly as possible,
and then stop it.
So you're only capturing
what you're interested in.
Cool.
So we can kind of zoom in over here.
We kinda see this pattern
here of the CPU profile.
It's doing it's thing, doing it's thing
and it's some really big stuff and
then it finishes.
So it kind of scrolling down into here,
again,
I just kind of wanna see what it is
that's taking a really long time.
And so kind of thing that I would look for
here is I'm seeing that,
let's zoom out a little bit.
I'm seeing that everything kind of starts
going here and then these are two,
you can see here there's a division.
There's two different parents, right,
that trigger one right after another.
This one's a lot smaller, so
I'm gonna forget about it.
This one's the biggest thing we have,
right?
It's total time is almost half a second.
So why is it that this synonymous
function takes so long?
So oops, go back to the profile, so we're
kinda tracing through, remember we don't
care about every single function cuz
a lot of these their self time is zero,
it's just their children
that are taking a long time.
So again we'll go down to the last big
one, right, the last long one that we see.
We see this anonymous function with
a self time, so we click on that and
it takes us right into our app,
right into our node code.
So if you were to open my Mastering
Chrome DevTools in your editor and
go to the nodeserver.index.js,
you'll see this exact file.
And so it takes us right there right away.
If we look back at the profile,
we can get a little more information.
So this is the long one,
and what's it doing?
It's calling fs.readFileSync a lot,
that's what's taking so long.
So we kinda go back over
into the Sources tab,
and we can see it's kind of doing
this silly contrived thing.
It's doing a loop and it's doing these
readFileSyncs on a really long text file.
Again, your app is gonna be a little
bit more in depth to read and
see what's going on.
But we have a pretty easy way from a total
backend node app that were unfamiliar with
to targeting the function that's
taking a really long time.
So we could do something,
there's tons of ways we could do this.
This thing, since we're reading
the same file each time,
we could cache it out here.
We could also make it asynchonous
instead of a synchronous read.
That's kind of getting into
the Node.js world a little bit.
But just so you know,
if you're running any Node app,
you can get right to the function
that's your slowest.
Any questions on the Node debugging?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, this is what's so
cool about it, yeah,
absolutely, any of these nodes SLI
apps you can just pipe through.
So normally you would run
no demand index subject so
you can run node--inspect and
then run no demanjs.
JFs, so you could do stuff like that.
And then yeah.
It's really cool.
There's a few, I've seen some really cool
articles before where people profile node
command line apps this way and
it's really cool.
You can see what Web next is doing or
what Gulp's doing, or mode.
It's really neat.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
in the web pack course.
It was Shawn Lark and he does that.
>> Jon Kuperman: That's awesome.
>> Speaker 2: And mine was [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, it's so cool.
>> Speaker 2: He'll walk through and step
through your entire [INAUDIBLE] process.
>> Jon Kuperman: Right,
what you normally see is a black box,
right?
What you normally see is,
it feels like a binary.
>> Speaker 2: I ran this command, and
then it kicks off 800 plugins.
>> Jon Kuperman: Absolutely, but
you can start really seeing it.
And then, you can go right to
your source code that way.
So it's really cool,
only applicable if you do NodeJS.
If you've got Ruby stuff,
you'll have to find your own profiler for
the other world.
But if you do Node,
you can use Dev Tools like that.
It's just pretty cool.